Updating GM Guide and other minor fixes (#88)
DeckofAdventures/TheGame: 1_Mechanics/02_GMGuide.md

### Example Combat Encounter designed for 4 Players at Level 2

In a longer campaign, mix up the types of encounters to see how Players react
and interact with each other. This will keep things fresh so combat keeps
Players engaged over time. 
Here, the context is kept purposefully blank to fill in with your setting.

**Location.** Start with a wide open space for the Players and enemies to move
  around in, between 10-20 spaces across to allow for movement and let the
  range influence Player tactics. 

**Setup.** Add 4 Minions close to the entrance and 1 Dealer farther away. 2
  Minions are melee guards and 2 are shooters 3-5 spaces away, to force the
  Players to choose their targets and allow space between each enemy. The
  Players will need to deal with the Minions first in order to reach the
  Dealer, allowing the Dealer to use their abilities in the first 2+ rounds. 

#### Stat Blocks

Every creature has a set of statistics that govern their actions in the game. Consult their stat block to learn their strengths and weaknesses, and what actions they can take in combat.

If you want to make your own custom creature, you can use the sample template provided below: 

> ##### Name

Reviewer: Examples below are bold entity name. Change to reflect same here?
```suggestion
**Name**
```

Author: I think we can leave it as ##### h5 as originally stated, sorry I didn't update that in the last pass. Making a commit to update that now - I think we should stick with h5 as a naming convention in other docs for NPCs or stat blocks so we can render these specifically uniquely in the HTML/Website render side of things rather than bolding it.

- **HP:** X
- **AR:** X
- **FP:** X
- **Skill Mods:** ±X AGL, ±X CON, ±X GUT, ±X INT, ±X STR, ±X VIT
- **Passives:** 
    - *Passive*: Descrip
    - *Passive*: Descrip
- **Vulnys:**
    - *Vulny*: Descrip
- **Actions:** 
    - **Major:**
        - *Attack*: ±X hit, X damage, X range, (single/X multi)-target, 
          (AGL, etc, No) Save (, X on save)

>     - **Minor**
>         - *Trait*: Descrip
>     - **Adversary** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Minor:**
        - *Trait*: Descrip
    - **Adversary:** 
```

      - Running Combat
      - Setting Up Encounters
      - Minions, Dealers, Bystanders, and Companions
      - Creating a Boss Battle
   - Building Your World
      - Preparing an Adventure
   - Managing Players \(Expectations & Realities\)
   - Number Crunch
   - Continuing Your Journey as a Game Master

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

## Section 1: Introduction

As the Game Master, your task is to bring together a group of Players and guide
them through an Adventure. An Adventure can last for a single 2-3 hour session,
or it can unfold over the course of weeks, months, or even years in a continous
narrative. You can bring together close friends in person, or find new friends
virtually through **MISSING** or in the Discord.

If you’ve been a Game Master elsewhere and are hoping to learn about what’s
different about being a Deck of Adventures Game Master, you can skip right to
Section 3, “Being a Deck of Adventures Game Master". For everyone else, or
those Game Masters who want a refresher, we’ll dive into what being a Game
Master is all about in Section 2: “Getting Started as a Game Master”. 

If you or your players have questions or need a helping hand, please reach out

> to the team on [Discord] (https://discord.gg/tmHSdb3TRQ) or via GitHub issues.

Author: I created this as a link that never expires in the settings.

> to the team on [Discord] (https://discord.gg/tmHSdb3TRQ) or via GitHub issues.

Reviewer: I think all our links should expire eventually. The ones I put up are 50-use. I think "What if 50 ppl joined tomorrow, could we handle it?" ... What if 100?

> to the team on [Discord] (https://discord.gg/tmHSdb3TRQ) or via GitHub issues.

Reviewer: also - links can't have a space between text and url value

Players and GM's work together to bring these moments to life. The Game Master
builds the world, populates it with characters and history, and then the
Players walk through that world and experience it first-hand. 

## Section 3: Being a Deck of Adventures Game Master

As a Deck of Adventures Game Master you are controlling the flow of card draws
constantly throughout a session. Your Players each have a single deck, which
gives you the ability to drain their resources steadily during a sesion to
have them feel challenged and tested while playing. 

You are also the primary resource of information for the world. Players will
come to you asking quesations about the broader world or about a specific
character, and it si up to you to provide details and information. Even if
you are working off of previously written material, you must always be
prepared to go 'off script' and provide information about the world to a
player. It is OK to say you don't know something, or that you can give them
more information later outside of the session. It is encouraged for you to be
open to Player questions and ideas, and attempt to work with them to tell the
story rather than against them. 

> You should be an impartial force in the world, controlling both the bad and
> the good without judgement, anger, or aggression. The best sessions feel like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should be an impartial force in the world, controlling both allies and
enemies neutrally. The best sessions feel like
```

everyone is working together to complete an objective, even the GM, rather
than it feeling like a battle or competition between the Players and the Game

> Master. This is a delicate balance, and GM's are encouraged to ask for their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Master. This is a delicate balance, and GMs are encouraged to ask for their
```

Player's feedback on how they can improve, and it is also a GM's
responsibility to provide feedback to the Players at the table when necessary
to help everyone enjoy their experience at the table. 

### Game Master Resources

> GM's should have several decks of cards available to them during a session so
> as to easily represent multiple groups of Minions and Dealers that the
> Players will fight during the course of an Adventure. At minimum, a GM must
> maintain two separate decks - one for enemy combatants and one for allies of
> the Players. If a GM only has one deck available, they should split the deck
> into two 26 card decks and re-shuffle regularly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GMs should have at least two decks of cards available during a session 
to represent allies and enemies. More decks may be useful to represent 
different groups. If a GM only has one deck available, they should split the deck
into two 26 card decks and re-shuffle regularly. 
```

> As the Game Master, you do not have to draw a single deck to empty. Unless a
> Dealer you control has an individual deck assigned to them, and they are in
> the active scene for long enough, the GM never invokes Lower Hand by needing
> to reshuffle. If an NPC were to need a mechanical reason to show them being
> exhausted, the same Status Condition can be added to that NPC as if they had
> a level of fatigue.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most NPCs won't stick around long enough to use a deck completely, and  
therefore won't need to invoke Lower Hand by shuffling. For the
exceptional NPC, try assigning them a unique deck, if available. If 
unavailable, you can decide when to invoke Lower Hand behind the DM screen.
```

### Managing Player Resources

As the Game Master, you can design Adventures at your Table to test different
aspects of the Players and characters. Each Player holds a single deck of 52
cards, with two Fate Cards reserved at the beginning of play. Each character
has statistics that include total Health Points (HP), Fate Points (FP), and
Armor Points (AP). 

You can think of a Player's deck of cards like their character's stamina. The
Adventurers should get progressively more tired throughout the day. This is
accomplished by having the Players make a series of Checks, which is their

> way of interacting with the world. At lower levels, it is OK for Players not
> to approach the re-draw limit of running out of cards between Rests. However,
> as players progress and level up, the Powers they choose and the Encounters
> they face may test them closer to running out of cards between Rests. 

Reviewer: Feature or bug? Shouldn't it be the case that PCs develop more stamina as they level up?

Do we need to start with 52 cards at level1? Would it be better to add the suits as you level up? This would mean that suited checks shouldn't happen below a certain level.

```suggestion
way of interacting with the world. At lower levels, Players may not
to approach the re-draw limit of running out of cards between Rests. However,
as players progress and level up, the Powers they choose and the Encounters
they face may test them closer to running out of cards between Rests. 
```

### Resting

HP and FP are also balanced by Rests. It is expected and recommended that a
party will take 1-2 Quick Rests between Full Rests during each day of in-game
time, depending on the Encounters they face. While Resting, the Players will

> be regaining their Health and Fate Points, expending Rest Cards along the
> way. This should be kept in mind when planning Encounters that deal damage,
> since Players will want to take a Quick Rest if their HP or FP drops below a
> threshold they feel comfortable with. 

Reviewer: I think you could revise systematically in quasi-second person, as this entire file is directed at GMs. This will cut down on the word count. 

```suggestion
be regaining their Health and Fate Points, and expending Rest Cards. 
Keep this in mind when planning Encounters that deal damage,
since Players will want to take a Quick Rest if their HP or FP drop too low. 
```

feasible for their characters to secure a 30-minute breather for a Quick
Rest, or a comfortable, uninterrupted full night's sleep with a Full Rest. If
a situation is tense, it may always be possible to take a Rest, and it is
ultimately the Game Master's decision whether a Rest is successfully
completed or not. In the event that a Rest is interrupted, it can be resumed
based on the remaining time left and extended as necessary. 

For example, if a group of Adventurers were attempting to spend the night in a
comfortable inn near the heart of a major city, a Full Rest would be easy to
secure. If that same group of Adventurers had just snuck into the heart of a
bandit camp, been spotted, and run into a tent to hide, it would be more
difficult to secure that Rest. 

A Game Master plays the ultimate authority in the successful completion of a
Rest, and can ask the Players for a series of Checks to determine whether the
Rest can be completed or if another factor gets in the way. Players are
encouraged to work with their Game Master and with each other to preserve
resources in tense situations where Rests may not be easily acheived.       

### Working with Character Vulnerabilities

> When Players create a character, they choose one or two (or more)

Reviewer: I thought the limit was 2 Vulnys. Or is `or more` directed at the possibility of taking more without XP reward?

Author: Yea, I put that in there since Players can technically add as many Vulnys as they want. Technically it's up to 3 since they can take 1 Major and 2 Minor, or even 4 if they take 4 Minor, so I figured leaving it open would be best.

keep in mind adding Vulnerabilities to those characters for the Players to
discover and potentially exploit. This helps the Players feel like they can
analyze the game one level deeper, and also by making certain NPCs more
nuanced and human it adds a layer of complexity to the Players experience of
playing the game.  

### Creating Your World 

## Section 4: Running a Session with Deck of Adventures

### The Target Card System

As a Game Master, you will set up various challenges and difficulties for the
Players throughout an Adventure. To resolve these challenges, a Player or GM
will draw a Target Card, and the opposing force makes a Check and draws a
card. The level of difficulty of a Check is set by the Difficulty Range,
which is how far away a pip value can be of the card being drawn relative to
the value of the Target Card. 

Keep in mind the Target Card System is circular, so an Ace is only 1 away from
both a King and a 2. 

| DR | -6 | -5 | -4 | -3 | -2 | -1 | 0 | +1 | +2 |
|---------:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Card | 8 | 9 | 10 | J | Q | K | A | 2 | 3 |

### Successes and Failures

> - Successes are cards that are drawn with a pip value within the Diffulty

Reviewer: How much of this is covered already by the full guide? Need it be repeated? I previously had it pretty sparse to only give the crunch

<!-- MarkdownTOC -->

> - [Introduction](#Introduction)

Reviewer: Did you add these heading links by hand? [This package](https://packagecontrol.io/packages/MarkdownTOC) should be able to auto-add them. It's been a while since there were any updates to [the repo](https://github.com/naokazuterada/MarkdownTOC) so there may be some bugs. If it doesn't work for you, it's pretty quick for me to do

Author: Yea I hand coded them so we'd have it in there, good to know there's an auto-add tool we can use in the future, thanks!

> 

Reviewer: I'm looking at commit 049f2e5. In the future, please separate hard wrap into separate commits that I can skip if I'm reviewing commit-by-commit

Author: Will do!

### Fate Cards

It's up to you to decide how often you want players to use their Fate Cards.
By default players start with their 2 Jokers and will randomly gain Fate
Cards as they draw their Aces. If you want to give them more chances to
redraw, reward key moments of play by giving a Player a Fate Card. This can
be a great tool for encouraging great roleplay or working together. 

### Skills Breakdown

Players will want to make Checks based on their character's strengths. Their
approach to a situation should determine the nature of a check, but as the GM
you ultimately have the final say in which skill applies. Attributes are
meant to be more responsive/reactive, and are often used for Contested
Checks. Skills are intended to be more active for character-initiated events
such as scaling a wall or looking for something.

The below is a list of general information about the Attributes and Skills.

> More information is available in the [Full Players Guide](https://github.com/DeckofAdventures/TheGame/blob/main/1_Mechanics/01_PlayerGuide_Full.md#Characters)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More information is available in the 
[Full Players Guide](https://github.com/DeckofAdventures/TheGame/blob/main/1_Mechanics/01_PlayerGuide_Full.md#Characters)
```

     Piety)
- INT Intelligence: Thinking on the fly, rapidly recalling information
   - Knowledge: Primary Skill for Casters, how much you know with regards to
     history or science
   - Investigation: Actively seeking the answer to a specific question using
     senses and acumen
- STR Strength: Physical limits and boundaries, useful in resisting a push or
  catching a boulder.
   - Athletics: Sustained exertion.
   - Brute: Primary Skill for Defenders, a burst hit or single heavy lift.
- VIT Vitality: Determines HP, resistance of disease.

### Contested Checks

Contested Checks are initiated when two opposing forces are attempting to
accomplish something at the same time. This can be someone attempting to push
someone else over, a Player trying to convince an NPC that they are an ally,
or with the use of certain Powers. 

For the most updated reference and ruling on Contested Checks, visit the
[Full Player Guide](https://github.com/DeckofAdventures/TheGame/blob/main/1_Mechanics/01_PlayerGuide_Full.md#contested-checks)

Here are some Examples of Skills that are used in Contested Checks, though you
are free to decide what makes the most sense in a given scenario at your

> table. 1. Tackle Target: Attacker Finesse vs. Target Athletics 2. Convince
> Target, truthfully: Bluffing vs. Target Detection 3. Convince Target,
> deceptively: Bluffing vs. Target Detection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
table. 

1. Tackle Target: Attacker Finesse vs. Target Athletics 
2. Convince Target, truthfully or deceptively: Bluffing vs. Target Detection 
3. `MISSING`
```

anything that would unfold in less than a minute. They invoke a specific set
of rules for determining the outcome, which is different than traditional
combat, social interaction, or exploration. 

Setting an Epic Event during a session typically is a good way to engage all
of your players in a faster-paced, more free-form set of roleplaying. Since
Players can't make a Check two times in a row, it requires active dialogue,
planning, and participation from every Player. It is recommended to stick to
one or two Epic Events per session, so as to keep it feeling unique and not
drain too much Stamina from the Players, though as the Game Master you can
set as many as you would like. 

An Epic Event can be the group attempting to escape a crumbling fortress, or
escape an island with an erupting volcano. It can cover things that are
smaller in scope, such as a single point on a larger battlefield, or it can
determine the outcome of an entire battle itself. As the Game Master, you
will get a feel for what makes for a good Epic Event, and how to place it in
your narrative to keep the session feeling fresh and lively for all of your
Players.

> For the most updated reference on Epic Events, visit the [Full Player Guide](https://github.com/DeckofAdventures/TheGame/blob/main/1_Mechanics/01_PlayerGuide_Full.md#Epic-Events)

Reviewer: I don't want to imply that a doc we write is out of date. The metadata can handle that.

```suggestion
For more information on Epic Events, visit the [Full Player Guide](https://github.com/DeckofAdventures/TheGame/blob/main/1_Mechanics/01_PlayerGuide_Full.md#Epic-Events)
```

Player will draw a Target Card (TC), and the other draws against that card to
make a Check. The level of difficulty of a Check is set by the Difficulty
Range (DR), which is the distance between pip values that will still count as
a success. When thinking about the Target Card System, it may be helpful to
consider a bullseye, where the Target Card is the center of the bullseye and
the DR is the number of circles away from the bullseye you can hit and still
be successful. 

One of the initial barriers a new GM must overcome is helping the Players
understand the Target Card system. As Players get more familiar with the
system, speed of play increases, and it is then easier for them to understand

> more complex mechanics. Using the [Circular TC-DR Tool](.../1_Mechanics/Circlular_TC-DR_Tool/1_Assembled.PNG) is a helpful visual

Reviewer: This might have been my mistake. For relative references
- One dot means 'here'
- Two dots means 'up'
- Slash means folder
```suggestion
more complex mechanics. Using the [Circular TC-DR Tool](./Circlular_TC-DR_Tool/1_Assembled.PNG) is a helpful visual
```

can't make a Check two times in a row, it requires active dialogue, planning,
and participation from every Player.

As the GM, you are actively drawing against the Players on a TC during the
Epic Event. The odds are skewed in the Players' favor by allowing them to

> draw using Skill Modifiers while the GM draws with a +0 Mod. Your ability to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
draw using Skill Modifiers while you draw with a +0 Mod. Your ability to 
```

<!-- BROZ: Do we Bystander distinction? Can't an NPC be either Dealer, Minion
 or Companion, and join players in combat accordingly? -->

> <!-- LOCK: Bystander to me is our stand-in for "Allied NPC", whereas a Minion is an enemy term and Companion is a Player Controlled character. I don't like the term "NPC" when talking to GMs who are literally playing the characters, so I feel like using Bystander and Minion/Dealer as GM controlled character terms is more useful here. -->

Reviewer: I'd prefer to have a unified term for non-dealer so that their allegiance is ambiguous 
- A: Are they a dealer?
- B: No, they're a `X`

If `X` could be bystander or minion, saying which gives hints at where the narrative 'should' go.

I also don't love the asymmetry between bystander and minion. The former sounds passive (which, if DM-NPC or allied combatant, they're not) and the latter sounds weak ('yeah, you can defo oneshot this one') when that may not be the case at higher levels

Author: What term would you suggest in this case? If we have Dealer (for Player or GM controlled), what is a singular term for non-Dealer? 

Minion has been my term for an Enemy non-dealer, where Bystander was a term we had in there for a long time. Minion won't work for townsfolk or shopkeeps, so we'll want to find that separate term that can be all-encompassing.

I'd like to keep "Minion" as a term for a directly controlled Dealer character (Player or GM) such as the Necromancer, where the Skeletons are "Minions" of them rather than independent thinking enemy characters that are non-dealers.

Author: Added as Issue #104
